---
id: BasicVocabulary
title: Basic Vocabulary of Spatial Statistical Analysis
---
The theoretical basis of spatial statistical analysis is based on statistics,
before using spatial statistical analysis function, learn some basic
vocabulary and concepts of statistics is conducive to understand the spatial
statistical analysis function.

### Null hypothesis

Statistical term, also known as the original hypothesis, refers to the
presupposition established when conducting statistical tests. When the null
hypothesis is established, the relevant statistics should be subject to the
known probability distribution. When the calculated value of the statistic
falls into the negative domain, the small probability event is known, and the
original hypothesis should be negated. The null hypothesis in spatial
statistical analysis is assumed to be spatial randomness, namely spatial
random distribution of spatial data, or spatial random distribution of values
associated with spatial data. As shown in the figure below, if your
calculation falls somewhere between -2 and 2, your hypothesis is acceptable,
but out of this range, indicating a small probability event.

![](img/NullHypothesis.png)

For example, a city in February there were N crime incidents, without any
additional conditions, should be evenly distributed in each area of the city,
this is the so-called "null hypothesis", in spatial statistics, the null
hypothesis means the space position in a certain area present completely
random distribution (uniform). Crime may also be a random distribution, some
regions have not occurred, while others have occurred several times. We need
to analyze the values of P and Z to determine whether we accept the null
hypothesis or reject the null hypothesis.

### Gi_Pvalue

P is the probability, it reflects the probability of a particular event
happening. In spatial statistical analysis, Gi_Pvalue indicates the
probability that the observed spatial pattern is spatially random. When the
Gi_Pvalue is very small, it is unlikely that the observed spatial pattern is
generated in a random process (a small probability event), so the null
hypothesis can be rejected.

### Gi_Zscore

Z is a multiple of the standard deviation. Standard deviation can reflect the
dispersion degree of a data set. Both Gi_Zscore and Gi_Pvalue are associated
with standard normal distribution. The threshold value of Gi_Zscore and
Gi_Pvalue is shown as below:

![](img/ZScore.png)

### Gi_ConfInvls

Spatial statistical analysis uses inferential statistics, which will
preestablish the "null hypothesis" in the process of statistical test,
assuming that the related values between the elements or elements are
presented as random spatial patterns. The P value is used to represent the
correct probability of the null hypothesis, to determine whether to accept the
null hypothesis or reject the null hypothesis. The Z score is used to
represent a multiple of the standard deviation to determine whether the data
is clustered, discrete, or random. The typical Gi_ConfInvl is 90%, 95% or 99%.
For example, when calculating the results of P is less than 0.1, says there is
a 10% chance of data is random, there is a 90% chance of clustering or
discrete, the situation may refuse to "null hypothesis", think clustering or
discrete characteristics of the data.

The following table shows the uncorrected critical p value and critical
Gi_Zscore of different confidence values (which can be used to apply error
detection rate (FDR) to use the corrected critical p value.These thresholds
are equal to or less than the values shown in the table below).

Gi_Zscore(Standard Deviations) | Gi_Pvalue(probability) | Gi_ConfInvl  
---|---|---  
*<-1.65 or*>1.65 | *<0.10 | 90%  
*<-1.96 or*>1.96 | *<0.05 | 95%  
*<-2.58 or*>2.58 | *<0.01 | 99%  
  
### Moran's I

Moran's I is an important metric for measuring spatial correlation. The
Moran's I is a rational number, after the variance normalization, its value
will be normalized to -1.0-1.0. Moran's I >0 indicates the positive
correlation of space, and the larger the value, the more obvious the spatial
correlation. Moran's I <0 indicates the negative correlation of space, the
smaller the value, the larger the spatial difference. Otherwise, Moran's I = 0
means that space is random.

### The center of mass

The input dataset type of some spatial statistical analysis can be point, line
or region. However, the actual space distance is used to calculate the space
weight in the space relationship of inverse distance or fixed distance. So,
for point, line, and region objects, its center of mass is used in the
distance calculation. The object's center of mass is the weighted average
center for all children. The weighted term of the point object is 1 (that is,
the center of mass is itself), the weighted term of the line object is length,
and the weighted term of the region object is the area.

### Its own weight

Spatial statistical analysis of certain functions allows users to provide a
numeric field for their weight values. Its own weight is the distance or
weight between the elements and their own. In normal cases, the weight value
is 0. But in the case that the user specifies its own weight field, the value
will replace itself in the calculation.

### Distance

There are two kinds of distance in spatial statistical analysis, which are
Euclidean distance and Manhattan distance.

Euclidean distance is the most commonly used distance measurement method in
rectangular coordinate system, the planar linear distance between two points,
if the coordinates of two points respectively (x1, y1) and (x2, y2), the
Euclidean distance calculation formula is:

![](img/Distance1.png)

Manhattan distance is a different measurement method from European distance.
The distance between two points is not a straight line, but a sum of the
length of the axes. It is the sum of the distance of the projection of the
axis generated by the line segment formed by the two points in the continental
distance fixed rectangular coordinate system. The formula is:

![](img/Distance2.png)

### Regression analysis

Regression analysis is a statistical analysis method to determine the
quantitative relationship between two or more variables. Regression analysis
can be divided into linear regression analysis and nonlinear regression
analysis according to the relationship type between independent variables and
dependent variables. If only one independent variable and one dependent
variable are included, and the relationship of the two can be approximated by
a straight line, this regression analysis is called linear regression
analysis. If two or more independent variables are included, and the dependent
variable and the independent variable are linear, it is called multiple linear
regression analysis.

### Spatial weight matrix

Spatial weight matrix is a representation of data space structure. It is a
quantification of the spatial relationship between the elements of a dataset
(or, at least, a quantification of the conceptualization of such
relationships). Because the spatial weight matrix has to impose a structure on
the data, so should choose the most appropriate elements reflect the actual
interaction between conceptualization (of course, also need to consider trying
to measure objects). For example, if you want to measure the clustering of a
particular species of seed in the forest, it might be best to use some form of
inverse distance. However, assessing the geographic distribution of commuters
in a particular area may be a better option for travel time and cost.

Although it depends on the physical implementation of various methods, the
spatial weight matrix is the NxN table (N represents the number of elements in
the dataset) conceptually. Each element has one row and one column. The pixel
value of any given row/column combination is a weight that can be used to
quantify the spatial relationship between these row elements and the column
elements.

###  Related Topics

 [Measuring geographic analysis](MeasureGeographicDistributions)

 [Cluster analysis](Clusters)

 [Modeling spatial relationships](SpatialRelationshipModeling)

 [Analyzing patterns](AnalyzingPatterns)

* * *

[](http://www.supermap.com)  
  
---

