---
id: ProductUsers
title: User Groups
---
Traditionally, GIS desktop focuses on mapping. However, with the widely
application of GIS technology and IT technology development, more an more
users have their eyes on 3D applications and knowledge mining. What is more,
there are more users begin to choose GIS desktop product for project
development now.

SuperMap iDesktop is a comprehensive and professional GIS application,
which supports 2D mapping, data processing, data analysis, extension
development, data sharing, etc. SuperMap iDesktop is an application
platform for professional to manage GIS projects, maps, 3D models, etc. From
the perspective of GIS applications, users for SuperMap iDesktop include:

![](img-en/DesktopUsers.png)  
---  
* **Map Authors**

Thematic mapping, layout and printing, symbol resource libraries, rich data
processing fucntions ar eprovided to allow map authors to make delicate maps.

* **Geographic Data Managers**

Import of data of different types, dataset creation, data editing, projection
setting, data registration, raster data processing, etc. are supported.
Geographic data managers can create new geographic data, or process and edit
existing data for data management.

* **Spatial Data Analyzers**

Rich spatial analysis functions such as buffer analysis, overlay analysis,
surface analysis, interpolation analysis, raster statistics, distance raster,
dynamic segmentation, hydrology analysis, etc. are provided for users to
extract and mine geographic information of data based on geographic position
and patterns of spatial data.

* **3D Application Users**

3D data creation, display and browsing, 3D flying, data modeling, 3D spatial
analysis, 3D network analysis, etc. are provided for 3D data to offer strong
support for 3D application. Meanwhile, SuperMap iDesktop provides
multiple types of special effects, including flame, explosion, fountain, smoke
and fog, water flow, fireworks, falling leaves, etc. to enhance sense of
reality.

* **GIS Scientific Researchers**

SuperMap iDesktop have been applied in fields such as land industry,
military, digital city, city planning, water conservancy, public facilities,
etc. The product is primarily used for data processing and data analysis for
research results in those fields.

* **Extension Developers**

Except for traditions industries need GIS, more and more new industries is
exploring the value of GIS technology. Those industries include insurance,
finance, logistics, tobacco, etc. Users can develop new functions  through
extension develop to assist research and application.

* **Nautical Chart Managers**

Nautical chart import and export, browsing, modification, etc. are supported.
Users can create a new copy of nautical chart, also, they can modify based on
an existing copy. Meanwhile, the integration of nautical chart data and land
data can be integrated for publishing, which facilitate land and sea
integration and nautical chart management.

* * *

[](http://www.supermap.com/en)  

---

