---
id: ProductIntroFunction
title: Main Applications
---
### What can  do?

Abundant features are provided in  which can meet users' regular needs like
processing GIS data, analyzing data, mapping and project applications and so
on. In the meanwhile, plugin extension and secondary development are supported
for users to develop new features in demand. With  you can:

  * Produce and print maps
  * Edit and process GIS data
  * City planning
  * Digital city 3D modeling
  * Manage public facilities
  * Manage GIS information
  * National defense, military application
  * Emergency and disaster response
  * Manage underground pipelines

We provide two cases of ** here:**

  * **Geographical conditions census pre-processing software**

Secondary development provided by  can make people develop features and
plugins in demand like the Geographical conditions census pre-processing
software (gcStation). gcStation was developed based on  and achieved
digitization of image data in sheet to process and integrate data more easily.
The plugin uses different symbols to express different each elements, and
provides a variety of features to draw elements automatically. The element
objects and their attributes can be modified and the result data can be output
by sheet.

  * **City three dimensional modeling**

provides rich 3D rendering and operations for managing city 3D information.
For example, the Guilin 3D tourist city system combines 3D functions provided
by  and then develop corresponding features including project constructions
and contrastive analysis to achieve quick modeling of 3D city and texturing-
rendering thereby visualize distributions of underground pipelines and search,
count pipelines. And with the comparison feature, contrast display effects of
each scheme in the 3D scenes, and in the meanwhile add some particles like
water, fireworks and enable the features of sunshine and shadow.

![](img-en/SceneApplication.png)  
---  
  * **Mapping**

Abundant map-drawing and map-rendering features are provided by  like various
thematic maps. Combining features like editing data and processing data you
can optimize the map display effect. You can produce municipal administration
maps, land use maps, city planning maps, charts on population or economy,
tourist site map and so on.

![](img-en/Mapping.png)  
---  
  
