---
id: ProductLine
title: SuperMap Universal Series
---
SuperMap GIS 9D(2019) includes cloud GIS platforms and a variety of GIS
development platforms that support PCs, mobiles and browsers to fully embrace
spatial big data.

SuperMap GIS 9D(2019) includes GIS cloud and GIS ends two parts, namely GIS
cloud platform software, GIS end softwares in mobile, Web and PC. Based on the
iPortal, iServer, iEdge, iManager cloud GIS platform software, provided by
SuperMap GIS 9D(2019), you can easily build a powerful, cross-platform cloud
GIS service application. Based on the iMobile, iClient, iObjects, iDesktop and
other types of GIS end products provided by SuperMap GIS 9D(2019), you can
build a variety of cross-platform client applications to connect to the cloud
GIS service platform, SuperMap Online GIS platform, etc .; In addition, you
can also build a more brilliant and practical real 3D applications with the
new 3D integration technology which is throughout all the products of
SuperMap.  ![](img-en/Products.png)  

  
## ![](img-en/read.gif) Cloud GIS server

### SuperMap iServer

Cloud GIS application server based on high-performance cross-platform GIS
core. It has abilities to manage, cluster and publish 2D&3D integration
services and multi-level extended development capabilities.

Provides strong Web services like saving and analyzing spatial big data, and
instantly processing flow data, and publishing a huge amount of data without
generating tiles.

Provides kinds of SDKs using in PC side, Web side, mobile side and fuses
technologies deeply including Docker, Kubernetes and so on. The support to
Cloud Native Architecture makes people build spatial big data application
system based on cloud-end integration.

### SuperMap iPortal

A GIS portal platform combining GIS resource's integration, search, share and
management and it has abilities to customize visualization interfaces without
codes, register multi-source heterogeneous services and monitor dashboards by
system and so on.

It provides abundant web-side applications like creating thematic maps, 3D
visualization, distributed spatial analysis, showing data in big screen and
creating template applications and so on.

It is the user center, resource center and application center of cloud-end
integration GIS platform and can build GIS cloud portal stations quickly.

### SuperMap iManager

A comprehensive management software for GIS operation and maintenance which
can be used for managing application services, basic facilities and big data.
With the Docker/Kubernetes solution based on the container technology, people
can create SuperMap GIS cloud and big data stations by one click.

It can monitor multiple GIS data nodes, GIS service nodes or other Web
stations, and hardware resource usage, map access hotspots, node health
status, etc.

It can manage GIS Native system thereby achieve dynamic scale and flexible
deployment to granularity.

## ![](img-en/read.gif) Online GIS platform

### SuperMap Online

The SuperMap online GIS platform (www.supermapol.com) helps people upload GIS
data to cloud safely and provides rich tools to display and analyze data
online and develop various SDKs to access GIS data thereby develop business
systems quickly.

## ![](img-en/read.gif) Edge GIS server

### SuperMap iEdge

It is deployed close to client sides or datasources and achieves near-service
publishing and real-time analysis calculations thereby reduces response
latency and bandwidth consumption and then relieves stress of cloud GIS
center.

It can be taken as the edge node between the GIS cloud side and the
application side to improve the GIS-end access experience with the proxy
service aggregation and cache acceleration technology, and provides content
distribution and edge analysis and computing capabilities to help build a more
efficient and intelligent "Cloud-Edge-End" GIS application system.

## ![](img-en/read.gif)GIS in PC ends

### SuperMap iObjects Java

A large scale component-style GIS development platform which has abilities to
cross platform, integrate 2D and 3D data and process big data GIS and is
applicable to Java development environment.

### SuperMap iObjects C++

A large scale component-style GIS development platform which is applicable to
C++ development environment and provides abilities to cross platform,
integrate 2D and 3D data.

### SuperMap iObjects .NET

A large scale component-style GIS development platform which has abilities to
integrate 2D and 3D data and is applicable to Java development environment.

### SuperMap iDesktop

A desktop-style GIS application and development software which has various
features like editing, managing and processing 2D&3D integrated data, mapping,
analyses, 2D/3D plotting and so on. It supports nautical charts, accessing
online maps and collaborative sharing of cloud-end resource and it can apply
to produce, process, analyze spatial data and customize business application
systems easily.

### SuperMap iDesktopX

The industry's first cross-platform full-featured desktop-style GIS software
which supports mainstream Linux operation systems, and has broken through the
difficulty that professional desktop GIS software only can be used in Windows
operation systems.

Provides series of features like spatial data production, processing and
management analyses, visualized modeling, publishing services and so on for
producing, processing data and creating maps.

## ![](img-en/read.gif) Web-side GIS

### SuperMap iClient JavaScript

A cloud-GIS network client development platform which is constructed based on
the modern Web technology stack and is a unified JavaScript client of SuperMap
cloud GIS and online GIS platform products.

Integrates the leading open source map development library and visual
development library, and the core code is completely open sourced under the
Apache License 2.0 protocol, connecting SuperMap and the open source
community.

Provides a new big data visualization function, and so rendering of maps can
be more beautiful and smooth in browsers or mobile terminals.

### SuperMap iClient3D for WebGL

A 3D client-side development platform which is developed based on the WebGL
technology and can be used for constructing no-plugin, cross-platform, cross-
browser 3D GIS application program.

### SuperMap iClient3D for Plugin

A professional 3D GIS network client-side development platform which is
developed based on the core "SuperMap UGC(Universial GIS Core)" and consists
of Web 3D GIS plugin and JavaScript API and can be used for constructing full-
featured, performance-high cross-browser 3D GIS application program.

### SuperMap iClient Python

A cloud- GIS client-side Python SDK which allows people to call functions
provided by cloud GIS or SuperMap Online by using Python scripts.

## ![](img-en/read.gif) Mobile GIS

### SuperMap iMobile for Android / iOS

A professional fully-functional mobile GIS SDK, and both of they support 2D/3D
application development, online applications and using features offline.

### SuperMap iMobile Lite for Android / iOS

A lightweight mobile GIS SDK which is developed for online applications.

### SuperMap iTablet for Android / iOS

A universal mobile GIS APP which is developed based on SuperMap iMobile and
has complete modules and smooth experience for data management and field data
collection.
