---
id: ProjectionUsed
title: Common Map Projection
---
Common projections includes: Mercator projection, Gauss-Kruger projection, UTM projection, Lambert projection and so on.

### Mercator projection

The Mercator projection is a cylindrical map projection presented by the Flemish geographer and cartographer Gerardus Mercator in 1569.

It became the standard map projection for nautical purposes because of its
ability to represent lines of constant course, known as rhumb lines or
loxodromes, as straight segments that conserve the angles with the meridians.
Although the linear scale is equal in all directions around any point, thus
preserving the angles and the shapes of small objects (which makes the
projection conformal).

The Mercator projection distorts the size of objects as the latitude increases from the Equator to the poles, where the scale becomes infinite.

### Gauss-Kruger projection

The Gauss-Kruger projection is conformal with a constant scale on the central
meridian. The ellipsoidal form of the transverse Mercator projection was
developed by Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1825 and further analysed by Johann
Heinrich Louis Kruger in 1912.

The features of the projection are: Near the central meridian the projection
has low distortion and the shapes of Africa, western Europe, the British
Isles, Greenland, and Antarctica compare favourably with a globe. The
meridians at 90 degree east and west of the chosen central meridian project to
horizontal lines through the poles. The more distant hemisphere is projected
above the north pole and below the south pole. The equator bisects Africa,
crosses South America and then continues onto the complete outer boundary of
the projection; the top and bottom edges and the right and left edges must be
identified (i.e. they represent the same lines on the globe). (Indonesia is
bisected.) Distortion increases towards the right and left boundaries of the
projection but it does not increase to infinity. Note the Galapagos Islands
where the 90 degree west meridian meets the equator at bottom left.

The Gauss-Kruger projection is now the most widely used projection in accurate
large scale mapping.

### UTM Projection

The Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) conformal projection instead divides
the Earth into sixty zones, each being a six-degree band of longitude, and
uses a secant transverse Mercator projection in each zone.

### Lambert Projection

A Lambert conformal conic projection (LCC) is a conic map projection used for
aeronautical charts, portions of the State Plane Coordinate System, and many
national and regional mapping systems. It is one of seven projections
introduced by Johann Heinrich Lambert in his 1772 publication Anmerkungen und
Zusatze zur Entwerfung der Land- und Himmelscharten. The distribution of the
transformation of the Lambert Projection is:

  * The angle doesn't change, which means that the shape of infinitely small area is similar.
  * The distortions in the same parallel are the same.
  * There are not any distortions at the two standard parallels.
  * At the same meridian, distortion length ratio is less than 1 between the two standard parallels, distortion length ratio is greater than 1 at the two standard parallels outside.
  * The length of latitude and longitude lines between two parallels is the same.

Some contents in this article is from Wikipedia.


