---
id: FloatWindows
title: ï»¿  
---  
Dock Bars

### Dock Bars

Dock bars can be placed at any positions, even beyond the application program,
which is very different from child windows. Dock bars can be docked, floating
or auto hidden. The Workspace Manager, the Layer Manager and the Output Window
are all dock bars.

  * Docked 

You can dock a dock bar and display it at a fixed position in the application
program. If a dock bar is in the docked status, you can click the
![](img/fixedButton.png) button on the title bar to auto hide it.

The ![](img/closeButton.png) button on the title bar allows you to close the
dock bar.

![](img/DockStatus.png)  
---  
Figure: Docked Workspace Manager (default status)  
  
  * Floating 

You can drag the title bar to move a status bar if the status bar is not auto
hidden. Arrows will appear when dragging the status bar. You can drag the
status bar to an arrow to dock the status at the corresponding position. Also,
you can drag the status bar to places other than the arrows to keep its
floating status. The ![](img/closeButton.png) button on the title bar allows
you to close the dock bar.

The dock bar can be dragged to places beyond the application program.

![](img/MoveStatus.png)  
---  
Figure: Dragging Workspace Manager  
![](img/FloatStatus.png)  
---  
Figure: Floating Workspace Manager  
  
  * AutoHide 

When a dock bar is hidden, the Show Dock Bar button appears at the position
where the dock bar is hidden. The hidden dock bar will show up when you move
your mouse pointer over the Show Dock Bar button, and dock bar will be hidden
again if your mouse pointer leaves the Show Dock Bar button. To stop auto
hiding, click the ![](img/setFixedButton.png) button on the title bar to dock
the status bar at the current position.

The ![](img/closeButton.png) button on the title bar allows you to close the
dock bar.

![](img/ShowFloatWin.png)  
---  
Figure: Auto hidden Workspace Manager  
  
### Arrangement of Dock Bars

You can arrange the dock bars according to your own preferences by dragging
them to appropriate positions. More than that, you can aggregate several dock
bars into tabs. As shown below, the Workspace Manager and Layer Manager are
arranged in tab and you can click a tab to display the corresponding status
bar.

You can directly drag a dock bar to another one to aggregate the two dock
bars. After the aggregation, tabs of both dock bars will be displayed in tabs
in the result dock bar.

To split a tab from an aggregated dock bar, you only need to drag the tab out
of the dock bar.

![](img/FloatWinTabs.png)  
---  
Figure: Aggregated dock bars  
  
* * *

[Copyright (C) 2007-2016 SuperMap Software Co., Ltd. All Rights
Reserved.](http://www.supermap.com/en)  
  
---

